Patience, let's turn to James chapter 1 verse 19.
Here the scripture reads,
Know this, my beloved brothers.
Everyone must be quick to listen that requires patience.
Slow to speak, patience, slow to anger.
So even though the word patience isn't used in this text, we do have to exert patience,
and it is speaking about patience.
patience is not only about waiting, it's also about how you wait, what your attitude
about waiting is, and the spirit you show while you're waiting, for example, you're in
traffic, stuck.
You're in a long line at a store waiting to pay for the merchandise you'd like to purchase.
You're getting very slow service at a restaurant, or you're waiting for someone who is slow
for an appointment, or to complete an assignment.
How do you wait?
We want to wait with patience.
We have a wonderful example in the scriptures, Elihu, is the man in Job, will turn their
Job chapter 32.
We can learn some lessons about patience from Elihu.
He had genuine love for Jehovah God and very deep respect for truth, and when he heard
some of the foolish, untrue things that Job's three companions were saying, and also from
Job himself, it irritated him, and we can read about his irritation, really righteous
indignation, we'd call it, had Job 32 verses 1 through 3.
It says, so these three men stopped trying to answer Job because he was convinced of
his own righteousness.
But Elihu, the son of Barakel, the buzzer of the family of Ram, had become very angry.
His anger blazed against Job for trying to prove himself right rather than God.
He was also very angry with Job's three companions because they could not find an answer, but
had declared God wicked.
Isn't that interesting?
Elihu, he waited with great patience.
He didn't interrupt Job or his three companions, those false comforters, even though he could
see clearly, they were terribly mistaken in what they were saying.
In fact, they lied about Jehovah God, and they made false accusations against Job.
So he did indeed have righteous indignation, but there's one thing we notice.
He gave an example that we can imitate.
He waited to speak.
He had patience before he revealed his feelings.
Let's read verses 4 through 6, Job 32, 4 through 6.
Elihu had been waiting to respond to Job because they were older than he was.
And Elihu saw that the three men had nothing to say in answer, his anger flared up.
So Elihu, the son of Barakal, the buzzer, began to speak, saying, I am young, and you
men are aged.
So I respectfully held back, and I dared not tell you what I know.
What lesson can we learn here about patience?
Don't interrupt other people when they're having a conversation.
Can't you see people do that?
You may be conversing with somebody, and some will just walk up and interrupt immediately
and insert himself, inject himself in your conversation.
Really, that's rude.
It's not the right thing to do.
I remember one time when I was at the Stanley Theater.
There was a brother there that I wanted to greet, that he was having a conversation with
a sister.
This was a very prominent brother.
And so in my enthusiasm, I walked up to him, and I interrupted the conversation to greet
him.
Well, what happened to me on that occasion?
He looked at me with a withering look of reproach for my bad manners.
What a good lesson.
He was right.
I was wrong to interrupt a conversation that it was obvious that he was having with another
person.
So we need to learn, because it's our inclination sometimes.
We want to be heard.
We think we've got something to say that's important, but is it really more important than
what the people are talking about?
Those that we interrupt, and some just seem to have the habit of interrupting.
So the lesson is don't be rude and interrupt conversations that others are engaged in,
even if you feel that what you have to say is more important.
Don't interrupt unless the building is burning down.
So what you have to say also might not be as important as you think it is.
There's another lesson we can learn here from Elihu in Job 32 versus 11 and 12.
Notice what it says.
Look, I have waited for your words.
I kept listening to your reasoning.
As you searched for things to say, I paid close attention to you, but none of you could
prove Job wrong or answer his arguments.
He listened closely to what was being said by the three false comforters and also by Job.
He got all the facts before he spoke, isn't that a good lesson?
Sometimes we may jump to a conclusion about somebody, his motive for doing something
or saying something, and we only have partial information, and then we find out I should
have been quiet.
I should not have said anything.
I'm embarrassed about my own foolishness because I jumped to a conclusion about this person.
So like Elihu, we should avoid jumping to conclusions about a person's motive for saying
or doing something.
We may be mistaken, especially if we react before hearing the reasons why a person said
or did what he did.
Being patient can save us from unnecessary embarrassment.
So it's a good idea to show patience.
Elihu's patience was truly remarkable also because he was a man of passion.
You can tell that he had very strong feelings about the truth and speaking the truth, the
way he was agitated over what Job's three false comforters were saying.
He wanted to correct matters.
He knew that Job's three friends didn't speak the truth about Jehovah, they lied, about
Job they were lying, but he contained himself until they were finished speaking.
What an interesting account.
Actually, let's turn to Job 32, 17 to 20.
This is how he felt, and sometimes you may feel this way, highly agitated, you feel you
just have to say something, but it's important sometimes, especially when you really feel
that way to hold back a bit versus 17 through 20.
So I too will give an answer, I too will tell what I know for I am full of words.
The spirit within me compels me.
My insides are like wine that has no vent like new wine skins ready to burst.
Let me speak so that I can find relief.
I will open my lips and give an answer, but isn't it interesting?
This is how the man felt, but he exercised control over his own person.
He exercised restraint in coming for speaking what he felt over perhaps quite a long period
of time while the three so-called friends of Job were criticizing Job and then Job's
reply.
He stood there, or sat there, and listened, paid attention, controlled himself, and at
the right time he spoke.
And we do know that his anger did indeed blaze against Job and against his three companions.
We can detect his anger in the first verses of chapter 32.
But what's fascinating about the way Elihu handled matters when you go to chapter 33,
when it came time to give counsel, he said a good example for all of us in the family,
when it comes time to give a person counsel, even if we're highly irritated over something
he or she did or said.
Let's read verses one through seven.
Elihu says, but now Job, please hear my words, listen to everything I say, look, please,
I must open my mouth.
My tongue must speak.
My words declare the uprightness of my heart, and my lips sincerely tell what I know.
God's own spirit made me, and the Almighty's own breath brought me to life, replied to me
if you are able.
Present your arguments before me, take your position, and notice this wonderful expression
of fellow-feeling.
Look, I am just like you before the true God, from the clay I too was shaped.
So no fear of me should terrify you, and no pressure from me should overwhelm you.
What a wonderful example.
We might get highly irritated at somebody and feel he really needs to be talked to.
Perhaps we feel that he needs a severe reprimand, but we need to do it with love.
Elihu was a friend, and you can tell when a person gives you counsel.
If he's giving you counsel just because he's angry at you, or if he's counseling you,
because he loves you, you're his friend and he wants to be of help.
That's the example that Elihu said for us.
So what good lessons for all of us from Elihu about patience and good manners?